# angsd
Final Project Repo for ANGSD

This dataset was retrieved from NCBI GEO database, accession number GSE203206. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE203206

It is linked to a paper by Caldwell et al., 2022. This study analyzed Alzheimer's Disease (AD) patient samples from the primary visual cortex (19 early-onset AD (EOAD), 20 late-onset AD (LOAD)) using transcriptomic signatures to identify patient clusters and disease endotypes (distinct biological signatures) unique to EOAD and LOAD. They found that there were no clear gene expression signatures that clearly separated the two types of AD, and molecular drivers are more likely a spectrum.

"Transcriptomic profiling of sporadic Alzheimer’s disease patients"
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC9559068

The data was generated by University of California, San Diego. Caldwell AB, Anantharaman BG, Ramachandran S, Galasko DR, Desplats PA, Wagner SL, and Subramaniam S were the authors involved in the data generation.

Total RNA was extracted from approximately 50 mg of frozen brain tissue using the Qiagen RNeasy Mini Kit.

Libraries were constructed using the KAPA Stranded RNA-Seq Kit with Ribo-Erase (HMR). This kit is designed to retain information on the strand origin of the RNA transcript, which is helpful for accurate quantification.

This study used ribosomal RNA (rRNA) depletion (via the Ribo-Erase step). This allows for the sequencing of a broader range of RNA types, including non-polyadenylated transcripts, which is why it is referred to as Total RNA-seq.

Samples were taken from human post-mortem brain tissue, specifically the Primary Visual Cortex (Brodmann Area 17)

The study compared Alzheimer’s Disease (AD) patients against Non-Demented Controls (NDC). The AD group was further stratified based on Age at Onset (AAO) to compare Early-onset (EOAD) and Late-onset (LOAD) cases.

Sequencing was performed on the Illumina HiSeq 4000 platform, producing 76 bp paired-end reads.
